README.md, before:

# EventStreams

Publicly exposes streams of MediaWiki and Wikimedia events.  Events will
be streamed to clients using [SSE backed by Kafka](https://github.com/wikimedia/kafkasse).

Here, an 'eventstream' refers to a collection of Kafka topics, each of which are configured
in the `streams` application config object.


## Routes

### `GET /v2/stream/{stream_name}`

`:stream` is configured in config.yaml.  Each key in the `streams` config object will be
created as a route.  Each of these stream routes will consume from configured topics.  E.g.

```yaml
streams:
  edits:
    topics: [datacenter1.edit, datacenter2.edit]
  single-topic-stream:
    topics: [topicA]
```

In this example, `/v2/streams/edits` and `/v2/streams/single-topic-stream` will be created as
routes. Requests to `/v2/streams/edits` will consume from the topics `datacenter1.edit` and
`datacenter2.edit`, and requests to `/v1/streams/single-topic-stream` will consume only from topic
`topicA`.  As long as the `Last-Event-ID` header (see below) is not set, consumption will
start from the latest position in each of these topics.

Requesting a specific stream name will return a never ending SSE stream to the client.
as SSE events.

Note that `{stream_name}` is not a request parameter, but pseudo-code to indicate that
there are multiple routes created under `/v2/stream/`.  These are each real routes, for
which you should add proper entires to spec.yaml.


## Historical Consumption & Offsets
If the `Last-Event-ID` request header is set (usually via EventSource), it will be used for
subscription assignments, instead of the given route's topics.  This header is usually set by an
EventSource implementation on receipt of the `id` field in the SSE events.
It should be an array of `{topic, partition, offsets}` objects.  Each of these will be used for
subscription at a particular point in each topic.  This allows EventSources connections
to auto-resume if they lose their connection to the EventStreams service.

See the [KafkaSSE README](https://github.com/wikimedia/kafkasse#kafkasse) for more information on
how `Last-Event-ID` works.


## TODO:
- server side filtering

Commit message:

Allow composite stream subscriptions
/v2/stream/:streams is now a parameter, instead of an explicit route.
This allows requests like:

- /v2/stream/revision-create
- /v2/stream/revision-create,revision-score,page-create
etc.

Only configured streams will be allowed subscriptions.

Bug: T187418
Change-Id: I4c397ab75121c5c4261f347011cd12b6b794744d

README.md, after:

# EventStreams

Publicly exposes streams of MediaWiki and Wikimedia events.  Events will
be streamed to clients using [SSE backed by Kafka](https://github.com/wikimedia/kafkasse).

Here, an 'eventstream' refers to a collection of Kafka topics, each of which are configured
in the `streams` application config object.


## Routes

### `GET /v2/stream/{streams}`

Streams are configured in config.yaml.  Each key in the `streams` config object will allowed
to be provided in the {streams} parameter.  {streams} is a comma separated list of streams names.
Each of these stream routes will consume from configured topics.  E.g.

```yaml
streams:
  edits:
    topics: [datacenter1.edit, datacenter2.edit]
  single-topic-stream:
    topics: [topicA]
```

In this example, `/v2/stream/edits` and `/v2/stream/single-topic-stream` would be valid requests.
Requests to `/v2/stream/edits` will consume from the topics `datacenter1.edit` and
`datacenter2.edit`, and requests to `/v1/streams/single-topic-stream` will consume only from topic
`topicA`. Multiple streams can be requested, by providing the stream names in a comma separated list,
e.g. `/v2/stream/edits,single-topic-stream`.  As long as the `Last-Event-ID` header
(see below) is not set, consumption will start from the latest position in each of these topics.

Requesting streams will return a never ending SSE stream to the client as SSE events.

When configuring new streams, you should also update spec.yaml to include the new streams.
The parameter based /v2/stream/{streams} is the real route, but it is convenient to be able
to read the API docs as if each individual stream was a real explicit route.


## Historical Consumption & Offsets
If the `Last-Event-ID` request header is set (usually via EventSource), it will be used for
subscription assignments, instead of the given route's topics.  This header is usually set by an
EventSource implementation on receipt of the `id` field in the SSE events.
It should be an array of `{topic, partition, offsets}` objects.  Each of these will be used for
subscription at a particular point in each topic.  This allows EventSources connections
to auto-resume if they lose their connection to the EventStreams service.

See the [KafkaSSE README](https://github.com/wikimedia/kafkasse#kafkasse) for more information on
how `Last-Event-ID` works.
